ABSTRACT

The keyboard is a device whose history is based on the typewriter and helps transfer the commands of the user to computers and similar electronic devices. The aim of this study is to design a new effective mobile keyboard, especially considering the misspellings and abbreviations used by teenagers and young adults. The most preferred phrases will be determined by using the data retrieved from Twitter's database. By examining the keyboards that have been designed so far (Q Keyboard, Dvorak Keyboard, F Keyboard, etc.), it will be a keyboard where the most used phrases and abbreviations can be written quickly.


INTRODUCTION

Keyboards have had a prominent role in communication among humans, the subject of knowledge, and hard and soft-copy materials that conserved knowledge in the last two centuries. Because keyboards are intermediaries of people in every context including the preservation of information from official recording to artistic creation, the efficiency and learnability of keyboard layouts are also quite important. There are many layout designs claimed to be “the most” efficient. However, today a keyboard design known as Qwerty, which dates back to nearly the 1870s, is dominant over other keyboard layouts in English typography, although there are intense debates about the feasibility of the layout (David, 1985). The Dvorak keyboard, introduced as an alternative to Qwerty in 1936, was designed much more ergonomic than Qwerty. Although it has given us several metrics for ergonomic layouts, it could not have replaced Qwerty (Buzing, 2003). Since Dvorak, different keyboard designs have been developed. Several countries produced different keyboard designs for their own language that gave us more metrics for the ergonomics of an efficient layout, while some individuals have developed alternative English keyboard layouts for Qwerty like Colemak. Today, the priorities of a keyboard layout changes with the new communication environment and social media, in which the use of abbreviations and symbols is reasonably significant. Furthermore, the medium in which we write is varying, because, at the present time, mobile devices are becoming used more and more. Despite the emergence of a new medium and a new informal language style, there is not any renewed and actual layout design. Therefore, this paper will try to find a viable and mobile layout design considering nowadays' requirements that appeared in the influence of social media in the light of several basic approaches to proper keyboard layout detected in the previous studies. 




PURPOSE

Our main purpose is to design a keyboard that provides its users with an agile and easy typing experience in social media environments. Our focus will be on teenagers who utilize abbreviations and emojis frequently in their shares. Additionally, we will work on a digital keyboard optimized for mobile phones, as the vast majority of the content is created by that specific age group via mobile phones. After obtaining the basic features a layout design must have in order to be efficient, we will apply these features to design a mobile “social media keyboard” which will be viable to type in social media contexts and environments. Finally, we will compare our keyboard prototype with other keyboard layouts that are ubiquitous nowadays or are claimed to be efficient. To be able to accomplish this purpose, we will narrow our data resources down to social media messages shared by subjects who are at a determined age interval.
